Our fourth and
last use case has to do with smart cities.
Now, a city is a geographically
bounded space, and
contains many different networks
operating within the same spatial domain.
What kind of networks?
Let's see.
It has transportation networks.
Water and sewage networks,
power transmission networks,
your IP broadband networks.
Some of these networks have
multiple subtypes, for
example transportation networks include
the bus networks, the subway network,
the surface street network, and
the railway network, and so on.
These networks form a physical
infrastructure and therefore
can be represented as graphs where
each node has a geographic coordinate.
But some of these networks can also be
thought of as a commodity flow network.
People flow through
transportation networks.
Sewage material flows through
a sewage network and so on.
For many of these networks,
a city planner would like to make
sure that they cover the entire city,
that commute time is optimized,
traffic congestions are well planned.
To accomplish this, they would need to
create what's called a network model.
For example, urban planners develop
city traffic model servicing.
A traffic model will use both
the geographic layout and
connectivity of the network along
with the flow parameters like
the number of commuters getting
on board at any station.
Well, if we're planning
to create a smart hub,
we need to make sure that all the right
things happen at the same place.
People who come out of a metro
station find nearby businesses.
They find nearby facilities.
Those facilities should
have broadband network for
people who are going to go
on their mobile phones.
The same places need to have
a water supply network, and
you have to plan it in such
a way that all these networks
who exist within a certain
distance of each other.
And all the facilities can
be planned accordingly.
Beyond normal operations,
we also need to model what would
happen if the network gets disrupted.
What are the kinds of congestion or
traffic that might disturb the network?
Therefore these graphs are no longer just
structures, but they represent things like
congestions, things like people's behavior
and materials behavior over the network.
One should also compute
energy use patterns for
the busy parts of the network in order to
figure out how the network structure or
the network flow can be altered to
enable energy optimal operations.
As we saw in these four examples,
what graphs are used for
are kind of different but
they all show different view points from
which you can use graphs for analysis.
So this course focuses on Graph Analytics.
I would like to briefly
recap what the term means.
Analytics is the ability to
discover meaningful patterns and
interesting insights into data using
mathematical properties of data.
It covers a process of computing
with mathematical properties and
accessing the data itself efficiently.
Further, it involves
the ability to represent and
work with domain knowledge as we
saw in use case two with biology.
Finally, analytics often involves
statistical modeling techniques for
drawing inferences and
making predictions on data.
With analytics, we should be able
to achieve the goals shown here.
Therefore, Graph Analytics
is a special piece of
analytics where the underlying data
can be modeled as a set of graphs.